# Optical Transmission technology

Optical Fibre uses the phenomenon of total internal reflection

Can go over 150 km without requiring amplification

Static and varying current: Static electromagnetic field and varying electromagnetic field

Copper wires in a circuit give and receive equal radiation thus Antennae are equally as good at giving and receiving signal

Going and returning current cancel each other out as they tend to have an opposite sign

Twisting copper is better than parallel copper in reducing interference. The signs changing mean the stronger signal is negated (look at diagram in notes)

Coaxial copper wiring has less signal loss due to the large conductor and a lower density inner core

## Total internal reflection

The idea of total internal reflection is to fire light into a medium who's refractive index, a value which determines the degree of refraction of light entering this medium, which is less than the refractive index of the medium which encompasses it.

This is saying that when light travels through the inner medium, there is an angle of entry to the medium at which no refraction of the light will occur as the light hits the outer medium. The entire ray of light is refracted back to the inner medium.

So any rays which enter the medium at an angle less than that of the maximum angle for total internal reflection to occur won't lose any power/signal along the way. This is called the *cone of acceptance*

## Path loss

The amount of power lost depends on the frequency used for the transmission

The smallest amount of path loss in fibre occurs at a wavelength of 1.55 $\mu$m and is 0.2 dB/Km

## Dispersion

refractive index is not constant but depends on the frequency

Three types of dispersion:

- Modal dispersion
  - different modes propagate at different speeds. Can only happen in multi-mode fibre
- Chromatic dispersion
  - Different frequencies propagate at different speeds
- Polarization dispersion
  - different spatial polarization can occur at different speeds

ISI -> Overlapping series of pulses in a channel

Use a single mode-fibre to get rid of multi-modal dispersion

Amount of dispersion depends on teh data rate and the length of fibre

Modal dispersion has the biggest effect but only in multi-mode fibre

## Laser

All photons are emitted at the same frequency and phase which generates a coherent light

An incoherent light would be something like a light bulb where the photons are emitted at various frequencies and waves

Works by a cascading effect where an initial photon triggers an excited electron attached to a photon and so on until you have a coherent wave. Having two mirrors (one partial) helps to ensure that the most light travels in one direction.

## Modulation

Used to add information to a signal

Lasers used to use on off modulation. Still the most common.

Direct laser modulation: Switching the current on and off

External modulation: External device obscuring the light produced by a laser

## Receivers

Photodetectors are the elements used as a receiver.

The receiver can cause extra noise to be generated when using Avalanche photodiodes. Variance of current increases

Receiver sensitivity is the minimum input optical power required at the receiver to achieve a certain bit error rate

Coherent receivers can detect phase as well as amplitude

Coherent receivers have a higher sensitivity

## Optical link design

### Noise in Optical Systems

- Amplified Spontaneous Emission (ASE): Amplification also introduces additional noise
- Thermal Noise: Random thermal driver noise of electrons at the receiver.
- Shot Noise: Quantistic nature of optical signals means photons arrive at the receiver at random intervals

## BER and OSNR

- Relation of the power of the signal and the power of the noise at the receiver

Optical amplifiers effect the power of the noise

Higher OSNR value means its easier to determine whether a receiver bit is 1 or 0

reducing the distance between amplification can reduce ASE in the signal.

Before the OSNR drops below the target bit error rate you should regenerate the signal. Terminate the connection and start anew.

## Dispersion compensation

For chromatic dispersion: Another fibre with opposite dispersion characteristics. fiber is called DCF

It will introduce loss and this needs to be accounted for in the power budget

## Wavelength division multiplexing

Marco completely messed up the slide and there's a rugby world cup to be watched. Come back to this later

Acronyms:

- ISI: Inter Symbol Interference
- LASER: Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation
- APD: Avalanche Photodiodes
- OSNR: Optical Signal to Noise Ratio
- ASE: Amplified Spontaneous Emission
- DCF: Dispersion compensating fibre
