# lec 2.01: Wireless channel impairments and mitigation techniques

- Impairments: Phenomenon that reduce the signals strength/usefulness
- Mitigation: methods to proactively reduce impairment phenomenon

## Impairments

1. Path Loss
2. Shadowing
3. Fading
4. MultiPath
5. Noise
6. Interference

### Path Loss

- Even when line of sight exists signal attenuates with distance
  - Attenuation: reduction in force, effect or value of something
  - Loss is roughly proportional to $\frac{1}{d^2}$

### Shadowing

- The attenuation that occurs from obstacles being in the path of the signal from transmitter to receiver
- Modelled with a log-normal distribution
  - Local mean power, expressed in dB, has a Gaussian distribution

### Multi-path

- Due to reflection and scattering multiple version of the signal may arrive at the receiver.
- It is possible for out of phase versions of the same signal to cancel each other. This is a severe situation.
- Think if this as the signal splitting as it hits an uneven surface.
- Delay Spread: original signal is spread due to different delays pf parts of teh signal.

### Fading (wireless)

- The signal loss as it propagates through a medium
- When referring to a wireless medium, fading is referencing Multi-Path signal loss i.e it's bouncing off of many different surfaces as the signal aims to reach the receiver.

### Noise

- Unwanted signals added to the transmitted signal.
- Can come from both natural and man-made phenomenon.
- Sometimes modeled in the aggregate as a random signal in which power is distributed uniformly across all frequencies (white noise)
- _Signal to noise Ration_ (SNR) is used as a measure of the quality of a channel.

## Mitigation

1. Diversity
2. Directional Antennas
3. Coding and Modulation
4. Spread Spectrum
5. System Level mitigation

### Diversity

- Combining independently received versions of the desired signal.

Types:

- Spatial Diversity: Multiple antennas
- Frequency Diversity: Multiple Frequencies
- Temporal Diversity: Repeated Transmissions
- Polarization diversity: Different Polarizations

### Directional Antennas

- Arranging the antenna array elements in a certain geometry
- By appropriately weighing the elements one can maximise the gain in one direction while minimizing it in the other directions.
- Can be used to reduce interference

### Coding and Modulation

Digital modulation schemes vary in

- power efficiency - how much power is needed to transmit
- Spectral efficiency - bits/second/Hz
- Robustness - to multipath fading, noise, interference

- Multi-carrier modulation splits the bit stream into several lower bit rate streams, each sent using independent carrier frequency

- forward error correction mitigates the effect of channel errors

### Spread Spectrum

- Signals are distributed over a wide range of frequencies and then collected back at the receiver
- The signals are noise like and thus are difficult to detect and interfere with

### Frequency Hopping

- Transmitter and receiver hopping between pre-defined frequency bands according to a pre-established and agreed hopping sequence.
- For security
- Fast and slow hopping (The amount of periods that a signal is transmitted over a certain frequency)

### Direct sequence spread spectrum

The bit stream is XORed with a chipping sequence

The spreading factor determines the bandwidth of the signal to be transmitted

More resistant to fading and multipath as well as being much harder to detect.

### Qs from lecture and answers

---

*Q* : what is the most detrimental wireless channel impairment for LAN?

*A* : Interference as access points are deployed very close to each other

---

*Q* : What about WAN

*A* : Path loss and noise due to the distance between stations.

---

*Q* : What about hilly regions

*A* : Shadowing, the transmitter and receiver are not in line of sight
