# Internet of Things

## Loose notes

Massive IOT has issues with scaling

There are extremes for IOT, it's a wide spectrum.

Massive MTC:

- Simple devices but many of them
- mostly short transmission ranges
- Scaling challenge

Critical IOT:

- Critical, highly specialised systems, that cannot fail.
- Think assembly line robots, self-driving cars, etc.
- 5G aims to support Critical IOT, mostly industrial sector
- Mobility is a big issue for robots, think factories
- removing the cables is ideal but complicated
- Extremely high requirements, near 100% uptime and low latency

Going wireless means accepting randomness in principle

Tactile internet: no difference between doing remotely and actually being there.

Light has a speed of light and so at some point you can't go faster. Only way to go faster is to predict with AI.

Making the network more and more network including a bigger emphasis on edge computing. Distributing intelligence where it is needed.

Big emphasis on combining the research areas.

## Supporting both

5G has to support both massive nad critical IOT

Not ready yet

## LPWAN

Low powered wide area networks

suited to accessing sensors in awkward spots

supporting small messages with small duty cycles.

bursty, small, infrequent messages

in LOS ~15km

sub-1GHz operation

How do you grant access to all the devices.

Must be pared back to the absolute basics

immature technology but not much is known about application uses.

Difficult to design when the traffic pattern is not known.

## LoRa

- Long Range
- 868MHz band
- Unlicensed

smart application, smart city without reliance on mobile networks

Uses ALOHA for medium access. Not amazing for QoS

Increasing the spreading factor:

- Going further away
- Decreasing the data rate (less power)

Bidirectional, the small device can initiate communication

250bps to 50kbps

up to 15dB link budget

Looking to enable the ability to take a proactive approach to issues instead of reactive approach

## Acronyms

MTC: Machine Type Communication
LPWAN: Low powered wide area networks
LoRa: Long Range
