# Queueing systems

## Loose notes from lecture

### Motivation

Can be used to predict some change in load or design.

So can you input 20 new cars to a system.

n users accessing a shared resource. CPU, Disk, I/O the examples are countless

Scheduler shares resources over time. Giving the impression of dedicated access.

### What does Queueing theory study?

think if machine which gets inputs and you study the outputs, the performance (waiting time, blocking)

- Arrival characteristics
  - Regular speed?
  - Bursts?
  - Time window between arrivals
- Service characteristics
  - Speed of service
- Resources
  - How many service points are there.

You do need to take into account that you may need to block access to the network, over congestion. Think New Years eve

### Elements

- Input
- Queue
  - Are all Queues born equal?, Prioritization
- Server
  - can have multiple servers
- Output

Certain population of customers arrive at random times

- Arrival rate lambda
- c identical servers
- jth customer demands s_j units of service from the server
- Customer joins a queue if can't be served.

Sometimes waiting is not allowed, think critical IOT

Service discipline specifies the order in which customers are taken from the queue. FIFO, LIFO, priority etc.

Total delay is the time that the service takes and the time spent queueing.

### a/b/m/K notation

a = type of arrival process

- how customers join the system to be served
- M (Markov) denotes that the arrivals are distributed according to a Poisson distribution, a discrete distribution. Inter arrival times are iid (stats), exponential random variables.
- M is the most popular model but not the only one.
- Memory is limited to the hop before

b = service time distribution

- how you serve the customers
- M (Markov) denotes exponentially distributed
- D (Deterministic) denotes constant service times
  - You know what you're going to wait for
- G (General) denotes iid service times following some general distribution
  - You lose precision, the expressive power is weaker but you accomodate more cases.

m = the number of servers

- the more servers is expensive for the system owner, servers have a price

K = maximum # of customers allowed in the system

- in critical IOT you bound the number of customers to the number of server.  No waiting in the system.

## Acronyms
